thank you for having me and uh Joe Biden
is the 14th US president who has tried
to resolve the Israel Palestine
conflict on the first day of the war in
Gaza Biden offered complete support for
Israel no calls on it to show restraint
we must be Crystal Clear we stand with
Israel Biden's support hearkens back to
that of President Harry Truman who in
1948 recognized the state of Israel
within 11 minutes
of its dec of Independence but some
subsequent presidents took a more tough
love
approach Dwight Eisenhower Richard Nixon
and Ronald Reagan all condemned Israeli
military action on occasion but Reagan
also started the practice of awarding
Israel $3 billion in Aid every year a
strong secure Israel is a shared
interest the George HW Bush
Administration was the first to threaten
to cut Aid to Israel if it didn't stop
illegally building settlements in the
occupied West Bank thank you for your
statement the Obama Administration took
the unusual step in
2016 of withholding a veto in the UN
Security Council after Benjamin
Netanyahu now prime minister ignored
Washington's request to stop settlement
expansion the US's extension cleared the
way for the security Council to demand
Israel stop construction notably the
question of us aid for Israel never came
up at either of the Camp David Summits
and it was never raised by either
presidents George W bush or Donald Trump
Trump's support gave Israel what it
craved the recognition of Jerusalem as
capital of the Jewish State now with the
war in Gaza in its fifth month and the
death toll Rising some in Congress say
Aid to Israel must be made conditional
there should be no blank checks for any
country we cannot continue the pattern
where prime minister Netanyahu says
Thank you Mr President for America's
generous military
assistance and then thumbs his nose at
America's
legitimate requests there might be a
subtle change in US policy of foot the
US has circulated a draft Security
Council resolution on Gaza that includes
words it has refused to use before for
now a temporary
ceasefire but still no definitive plan
to leverage billions of dollars in US
Aid to convince Netanyahu to change the
way he's conducting the war the show of
support yet to be matched by what
Washington says is its alarm over the
situation in Gaza Roselyn Jordan
aljazera
Washington make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer